TITLE: Crime against women: Odisha police launch digital platform
DATE: 2025-12-11 19:44:53

With crime against women rising in Odisha, the Keonjhar district police has come up with digital solution that would help girls and women register their complaint through a click on their mobile phone.
The Keonjhar police on Thursday launched ‘Project Rakhi’, a QR-based WhatsApp chatbot, that allow women to reach the police by simply scanning a QR code or sending a message to 9438916590.
The service operates round the clock and offers assistance on issues, including harassment, domestic violence, sexual assault, cyberstalking, dowry harassment, and kidnapping, said the police.
Integrated with the Emergency Response Support System(ERSS), it ensures swift police response, while also providing information on nearby police stations, women help desks, and real-time status of complaints or FIRs. The platform additionally empowers bystanders to report sensitive information anonymously, strengthening community participation in women’s safety.
“Our commitment is to ensure that every citizen of Keonjhar experiences policing that is transparent, responsive, and centred on their needs. These digital platforms are not just technological upgrades, they reflect our resolve to make safety, dignity, and service delivery accessible to each and every resident of this district,” said Superintendent of Police Kusalkar Nitin Dagudu.
Odisha has registered 40,947 crimes against women, including 3,205 cases of rape, since July 1, 2024, Chief Minister Mohan Majhi had informed the State Assembly in a written reply.
Behind many of these cases are thousands of women, who suffered in silence before approaching law-enforcement agencies. In most instances, women still struggle to muster the courage to speak about the violence they face, the officer said.
Through Suraksha Beat, another application, senior citizens can know availability of police in particular police stations on a real time basis. Besides, movement of habitual offenders can be tracked through the Suraksha Beat. Similarly, Anusandhan application ensured transparency in investigations.
“Through this citizen-friendly online portal, residents can track the status of their FIRs, follow case developments, and identify the responsible investigating officer without needing to visit the police station. The platform reduces inconvenience for citizens, enhances accountability, and promotes a culture of openness in policing,” said Keonjhar Police.