TITLE: AVGC-XR sector holds much potential for youth in A.P., says RTIH CEO
DATE: 2025-12-11 18:58:32

As digital entertainment, gaming, animation, and immersive technologies are rapidly expanding, Andhra Pradesh must equip its young talent with the right skills and opportunities, Ratan Tata Innovation Hub (RTIH) CEO Dhatri Reddy has said.
Inaugurating the INNO-XR Lab at the RTIH in Mangalagiri on Thursday, Ms. Dhatri Reddy said the AVGC-XR sector (animation, visual effects, gaming, comics and extended reality industry) is one of the fastest-growing creative-tech industries in the world and it holds immense potential for the youth of Andhra Pradesh.
The INNO-XR lab provides a dedicated space to nurture creativity, innovation, and immersive technology development for young creators and startups in Andhra Pradesh, said a release issued by the RTIH.
Ms. Dhatri Reddy said RTIH and Andhra Pradesh VFX, Animation, Gaming Association (APVAGA) have partnered to strengthen the AVGC-XR ecosystem in the State by offering hands-on learning, industry exposure, and startup pathways for students and creators.
exploratory bootcamp
As part of this collaboration, a three-day exploratory bootcamp is being held from December 11 to 13, covering sessions on animation, gaming, VFX, storytelling, 3D design, AR/VR, and emerging industry tools, she added.
The bootcamp brings together students, aspiring artists, and early-stage startups to learn directly from industry experts through interactive workshops, live demonstrations, and creative challenges.
Addressing the gathering, Srinivas Sribhakta, director of Arena Animation, said India’s animation and gaming industry, currently valued at USD 3 billion, is expected to grow nearly tenfold in the next five years, creating a massive demand for skilled talent and new-age startups.
As part of the inaugural activities, RTIH also hosted a roundtable with industry experts, studio heads, and early-stage AVGC-XR startups, providing a platform for meaningful discussions on the sector’s growth, talent needs, innovation challenges, and opportunities for collaboration in Andhra Pradesh.