TITLE: Rohini Acharya’s post again fuels talk of crisis in Lalu’s family
DATE: 2025-12-11 18:30:00

With yet another cryptic social media post on Thursday (December 11, 2025), Rohini Acharya, Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad’s Singapore-based daughter, has thrown the spotlight on talk of a widening rift within the family.
“Giving ₹10,000 or distributing bicycles to girls, even if done with good intentions, is insufficient in addressing systematic issues that hinders women’s empowerment. The first responsibility of a government and society should be to take concrete steps to safeguard women’s equal rights, especially in view of the indifferences in society and family. The deeply entrenched patriarchal mindset in Bihar creates the necessity for comprehensive social and political reforms...” Ms. Acharya said in her post on Thursday (December 11, 2025).
“Every young and adult woman should feel assured that her paternal home is a safe place --- one where she can return without fear, guilt, shame or the need to justify her presence in the household. Ensuring this is not merely an administrative task but an important step towards preventing exploitation and harassment in future”.
In November, soon after the RJD’s poor performance in the Assembly election, Ms. Acharya, 46, in a social media post had said she was “quitting politics and disowning family”. The RJD had only won 25 of the total 243 seats in the election.
She held two aides of her younger brother and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, responsible for the decision to leave her paternal home and State politics. She had even alleged mistreatment in the family while returning back to home in Singapore.
“I am quitting politics and disowning my family... This is what Sanjay Yadav and Rameez [Nemat Khan] had asked me to do… I am taking all the blame,” he had said. While Mr. Sanjay Yadav, who is from Haryana, is currently a Rajya Sabha member of the RJD, Mr. Khan hails from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh and is a long-time friend of Mr. Yadav.
“I don’t have a family anymore. Go and ask Sanjay, Rameez and Tejashwi. They have thrown me out of the family because they don’t want to take the responsibility… the world is asking how the party ended up in such a situation (in Bihar Assembly election),” she had said, adding to the tension in the family that had earlier expelled and disowned Tej Pratap Yadav, Mr. Prasad’s elder son, following a leaked video on social media. Mr. Tej Pratap Yadav later formed the Janshakti Janata Dal and contested the Assembly election from Mahua in Vaishali district and lost. Mr. Yadav had retained his Raghopur seat in the same district.
In the 2024 Lok Sabha election, Ms. Acharya had contested against BJP candidate Rajiv Pratap Rudy from Saran seat and lost. Ms. Acharya, who had donated her kidney to Mr. Prasad in 2022, has often been expressing her views on politics and other issues on social media. Her latest post is seen in political circles as a sign of deepening rift in Mr. Prasad’s family following the RJD’s electoral defeat.