TITLE: Will establish peace, not buy it; to reopen old terror cases: J&K L-G Sinha
DATE: 2025-12-11 23:10:00

Reiterating to “establish peace and not buy it in J&K”, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday (December 11, 2025) said his administration “will reopen all terror-related cases to ensure justice in the Union Territory (UT)”.
Mr. Sinha made the statement while handing over appointment letters to 41 relatives of victims of terrorism in the Jammu division and pledged to deliver justice in such cases.
“Terror victim families were left to struggle in silence for decades. Justice was denied to these families. The deep scars were never healed. Such families are now being recognised, respected and rehabilitated,” Mr. Sinha said.
The Lieutenant Governor said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister Shri Amit Shah we are dismantling the entire terror ecosystem.
“We have not bought peace, but established peace. The days of misgovernance are over. Now terrorists, separatists and their patrons are not given government jobs but they are being identified and given the harshest punishment for their deeds,” the Lieutenant Governor said.
The J&K L-G said his mission was to bring about the change in the lives of those families who were deliberately deprived of justice, “so that they can contribute in society’s all-round progress and nation building.”
“It is my commitment to restore the dignity and economic security to those families, who paid the highest price. Jobs to real victims of terror and true martyrs reflect the commitment that the nation stands with them with concrete action,” Mr. Sinha said.
Besides job appointment letters to 41 terror victim families, Mr. Sinha also approved 22 age relaxation cases and 19 wards of J&K Police martyrs.
“There are certain elements from the dying terror ecosystem who are attempting to spread misinformation or negative narratives against the country. We will take stringent action against such elements according to the country’s established legal framework,” he said.
Mr. Sinha said the abrogation of Article 370 brought dynamic change in J&K. “Now terrorists, separatists and their patrons are not given government jobs but they are being identified and given the harshest punishment for their deeds,” Mr. Sinha said.
He appealed to all sections of society to contribute to the “Mahayagya” of Development in J&K with selfless action. “Those who are fanning separatism and threatening national unity will face action as per the law,” he added.
The Lieutenant Governor said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister Shri Amit Shah we are dismantling the entire terror ecosystem.
“We have not bought peace, but established peace. The days of misgovernance are over. Now terrorists, separatists and their patrons are not given government jobs but they are being identified and given the harshest punishment for their deeds,” the Lieutenant Governor said.