TITLE: Thirupparankundram row: HC permits fasting in support of lighting lamp at Deepathoon
DATE: 2025-12-12 06:43:23

Justice S. Srimathy of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday (December 11, 2025) allowed a petition by a lawyer seeking a direction to the authorities to accord permission for “peaceful fasting” to be undertaken by the “public of Thiruparankundram” on December 13, pressing for lighting deepam at the Deepathoon (pillar) near a dargah on the hill.
The judge allowed the petition filed by advocate R. Prabhu of Thiruparankundram in Madurai with certain conditions that included only 50 persons to be permitted to participate in the event. The State submitted that the entire matter was pending (appeal) and strongly opposed the petition that sought permission for the event.
The judge, however, said in the present case, the petitioner seeks to conduct a hunger strike alone. A hunger strike is a form of expression protected as a Fundamental Right under the Constitution, and therefore, the same cannot be declined.
“The apprehension raised by the authorities (respondents) is that there may be further requests to conduct other agitations. The contention cannot be accepted, as no application has been submitted before the authorities for any other agitations. Even if such applications were made, the respondents may regulate the event but cannot bar from conducting protest. Hence, the contention is rejected,” the judge said.
The judge quashed the rejection order passed by the authorities and directed the authorities to grant permission to the petitioner subject to conditions. Only 50 members shall be permitted to participate in the hunger strike on December 13 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m No slogans are permitted. They can utter only mantras, the court directed.
The entire proceedings shall be videographed. No provocative slogans against any person or group shall be permitted. Only one microphone is allowed. Both the petitioner and the respondents shall not give any political colour to the present hunger strike, the judge said.
The petitioner claimed to maintain cordial relationship with the law-enforcing authorities, a detailed representation had been to the authorities concerned with a request to grant the permission for “peaceful fasting by the general public” near the Mayil Mandabam on Sannathi Street in Thiruparankundram from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
A specific undertaking was given that public peace will not be affected and the guidelines and regulations imposed by the police will be followed. Even after such an undertaking was given permission was not granted, he said.