TITLE: M.A. Baby says some courts in Kerala ‘not living up to State’s sense of justice’
DATE: 2025-12-12 07:20:33

Some courts in Kerala are not living up to the State’s “general sense of justice” in certain cases, CPI(M) general secretary M.A. Baby has said.
Mr. Baby’s remarks came in the context of the verdicts in the Kerala actor assault case and in the cases involving Rahul Easwar and Rahul Mamkootathil, MLA, while speaking to reporters in Alappuzha on Friday (December 12, 2025).
“There is a general perception among the people of Kerala that the verdict in the actor assault case has undermined their sense of natural justice. That is why there has been large-scale mobilisation of opinion in favour of the survivor, including from within the film industry and various organisations. Taking cue from this, the LDF government has announced that it will appeal the verdict. The UDF convenor’s statement on the acquittal of a prominent personality in the case inadvertently revealed its stance on the matter,” he said.
Mr. Baby said this sentiment was not limited to this particular case. “While one Rahul (Rahul Easwar) is accused of revealing the identity of a survivor in a sexual abuse case, a serious offence, the other Rahul (Mr. Mamkootathil), accused of an even graver offence and described as a serial offender, has been granted anticipatory bail,” he said.
‘UDF’s double standards’
Mr. Baby said the impending verdict of the Kerala local body polls would be in favour of the LDF, “as people would have exercised their franchise based on their lived experiences.” The verdict, he said, would serve as “an opening statement” from the people supporting the continuance of the LDF government. People have recognised, what he described as, the UDF’s “double standards on communal politics.”
The UDF, he alleged, has “shamelessly associated with certain minority organisations that have openly advocated countering the communal vitriol of the RSS in the same manner.”
Mr. Baby said the electorate would have made an informed evaluation of the Sabarimala-related controversy. This, he said, would have enabled them to see that the special investigation team, functioning under court supervision, is conducting the probe diligently and has even arrested individuals who had at some point been associated with the Left when they came under scrutiny.
“It has conveyed the message that the LDF government is not reluctant to initiate probe, conduct interrogations, or make arrests regardless of political considerations. While the gold theft in Sabarimala is unfortunate, the LDF government has made it clear that it has nothing to hide from the public. The arrest of a former CPI(M) MLA is testimony to that,” he said.