TITLE: Madhya Pradesh govt. to push Centre for IAS officer’s dismissal
DATE: 2025-12-12 03:03:08

The Madhya Pradesh Government has removed IAS officer Santosh Verma from his current posting, weeks after his remarks on reservation and Brahmin community stirred a controversy in the State and outside.
The Government will also send a proposal to the Union Government to dismiss him from the IAS cadre as Mr. Verma is accused of forging documents for his promotion from the State Administrative cadre, a senior official in the Chief Minister’s Office said.
The action came after Chief Minister Mohan Yadav reviewed the matter and issued directions for strict action against Mr. Verma. An order was issued late on Thursday by Chief Secretary Anurag Jain to remove Mr. Verma from the post of Deputy Secretary in the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department. He does not hold any post in the government now.
“A fake and forged promotion order from the State Administrative Service to the Indian Administrative Service was prepared [by Mr. Verma]. Criminal cases are pending in various courts. The IAS promotion obtained on the basis of forged documents and fraud is wrong. Therefore, a proposal for his dismissal from the IAS is being sent to the Central Government,” the official said, adding that a departmental inquiry for allegedly obtaining a integrity certificate based on forged and fabricated documents is in its final stages.
“In the current case, Santosh Verma’s response to the show-cause notice [issued by the Government] is unsatisfactory. He continues to make indecent statements. Therefore, it has been decided to issue a charge sheet against him,” the official added.
At a regional event of the M.P. Anusuchit Jati-Janjati Adhikari Evam Karmachari Sangh (AJJAKS) on November 23 in Bhopal, Mr. Verma had said, “Reservation should continue until a Brahmin gives away his daughter to my son, or (she) has a relationship with him, if it’s only about the economic aspect.”
He had been appointed the new State president of the body at the event.
Mr. Verma later apologised for his remarks and clarified that by “giving away” he meant kanyadaan (Hindu wedding ritual of giving away a daughter in marriage) and was referring to the ‘roti-beti’ culture between different castes which promotes inter-caste marriages.
However, his remarks led to various protests from Brahmin outfits and leaders who alleged that they were derogatory towards women as they demanded an FIR and disciplinary action against the bureaucrat.