TITLE: MLA V. Joy rubbishes BJP leader Anoop Antony’s social media post on school infrastructure in Kerala
DATE: 2025-12-12 08:40:52

A social media post by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kerala State general secretary Anoop Antony over the condition of government schools in Kerala has elicited a sharp rebuttal from Communist Party of India (Marxist) Thiruvananthapuram district secretary V. Joy, MLA.
Referencing a photo of Mr. Joy casting his vote at Government Lower Primary School, Perunkuzhy, near Chirayinkeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram district, Mr. Antony sought to draw attention to the condition of the school. The Perunkuzhy school, he claimed, was not an exception. Government schools across the State were in a similar state.
He further connected the condition of schools to the controversy over Kerala not getting on board to implement the Union government’s flagship PM SHRI (Prime Minister’s Schools for Rising India) scheme.
Mr. Antony alleged that the Left Democratic Front-led kept boasting about its education model, while not implementing PM SHRI that was meant for upgrade of dilapidated schools. The “communist government is selling rosy pictures to the world, while hiding the rot at home,” he argued, claiming this was destroying the future of students.
Refuting Mr. Antony’s charges, Mr. Joy wrote on Facebook that it was foolish to form opinions in haste. He also posted a video clip of a colourfully painted Government Lower Primary School, Perunkuzhy, and its facilities for young students such as slides and toy train.
The school, he pointed out, was a high-tech institution with all modern facilities.
Mr. Joy told The Hindu that a new large building had been constructed for the school at a cost of ₹1 crore.
However, for the purposes of setting up multiple polling booths at the school, an old building that was not in use was reopened that day since it had a ramp facility for the benefit of differently abled voters in wheelchairs.
Mr. Antony’s post also drew some backlash with viewers commenting under the post that he was being untruthful. Kerala’s literacy levels and other achievements in the education sector were still better than that in States where the BJP had been ruling for years together and had implemented the PM SHRI.