TITLE: Fadnavis asks officials to make ready plan to build ‘India’s biggest shipyard’
DATE: 2025-12-11 19:55:39

Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday directed officials to prepare a plan for building India’s largest shipyard in Maharashtra by 2026. He was speaking at a review meeting of the Ports and Development Department in Nagpur at the Council Hall of the State legislature.
“Considering Maharashtra’s 720 km-long coastline, the upcoming Vadhavan Port, and the immense opportunities in the maritime sector, India’s largest shipyard should be established in Maharashtra by 2026,” he told the officers. He directed them to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and to identify a suitable location for it.
“To facilitate the development of Jaigad, Angre, Redi, and Vijayawada ports, the Vaibhavwadi–Kolhapur railway line must be developed, with provisions made for the State government’s financial participation. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is constructing a highway from Vadhavan Port to Nashik. Development planning should be undertaken along both sides of this highway, keeping in mind the affected regions,” he directed.
Several officials The Hindu spoke to said these were the initial directions and more details will be available only after discussion.
Industrial development
Meanwhile, the Chief Minister is learnt to have emphasised on the importance of industrial development in the port zones. He said that a dedicated company should be formed jointly by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and the Ports Department for industrial development in these zones. “Considering the emerging Vadhavan Port, a Special Planning Authority (SPA) should be created for the integrated development of major ports and nearby regions,” the Chief Minister said.
The meeting was attended by Ports Minister Narayan Rane, Chief Secretary Rajesh Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary (Transport & Ports) Sanjay Sethi, CEO of Maharashtra Maritime Board Pradeep P., and other senior officials.