TITLE: Kerala local body polls: Widespread violence and bogus voting alleged across Kannur; parties trade charges
DATE: 2025-12-12 09:19:39

Kannur witnessed widespread allegations of violence, bogus voting and intimidation during Thursday’s local body elections, with leaders of the United Democratic Front (UDF), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the Communist Party of India (Marxist) of orchestrating systematic disruption across the district. The CPI(M), however, rejected the charges, counter-alleging that the UDF was resorting to false propaganda “in fear of impending defeat.”
District Congress Committee president Martin George claimed that large-scale bogus voting and attacks took place in CPI(M)-dominated regions, including Anthoor, Malapattam, Kuttur, Mathamangalam, Vellur, Malur and Payyannur. He claimed that UDF booth agents were threatened and expelled from multiple booths early in the day.
According to him, women candidates were among those assaulted and urged the State Election Commission to take strict action against officials who allegedly supported these irregularities.
Incidents of violence were reported from Chengalayi, Cheruthazaham, Kokkad, Kottiyoor, Mankunnu, Kadirur, Malur, Muzhakkunnu and Anthoor. At Chengalayi’s ward 1, two UDF polling agents were allegedly assaulted and denied passes. At Cheruthazham’s ward 16, a UDF booth agent was allegedly beaten inside the Mandur L.P School booth. In Kadirur, UDF leader K. Lathika, the Panur block UDF candidate, was attacked inside the booth at Vetummal Mappila LP school, her voter list was allegedly snatched and she was pushed and abused before being admitted to a hospital at Thalassery.
In Malur panchayat, UDF candidate Amala and Youth Congress district secretary Rahul Mekkilery were allegedly assaulted after they reportedly questioned attempts at bogus voting. At Muzhakkunnu, district panchayat candidate Sajitha Mohan and two others were allegedly attacked when they reportedly tried to prevent impersonation. The police resorted to lathicharging to disperse a gathering outside the booth. More incidents of assaults were reported from Anthoor, where Congress constituency president Prajosh was allegedly beaten inside a booth.
Several injured persons were admitted to hospitals in Payyannur, Thalassery and Kannur. At Kottiyoor, UDF worker K. Aslam was allegedly beaten on his way to voting and was later hospitalised with serious injuries.
IUML district leaders Abdul Kareem Cheleri and K.T. Sahadulla accused the CPI(M) of “fearing democratic resistance.” They alleged mass deletion of voters from the final rolls, forced open voting, intimidation of officials and widespread bogus voting in CPI(M) stronghold booths, including early morning expulsion of UDF agents.
BJP Kannur South district president Biju Elakkuzhi alleged that over 150 open votes were forced in some booths and demanded an Election Commission probe. He alleged that the CPI(M), “unable to trust even its cadre, relied on extensive impersonation and coercion.”
Other isolated incidents included the vandalism of a BJP booth convenor’s scooter at Punnol Kurichiyil and UDF candidate N Abdul Rahman’s allegation of bogus voting at Panoth ward, where his daughter and booth agent was allegedly obstructed at Kankol LP School.
CPI(M) rejects charges
CPI(M) district secretary K.K. Ragesh dismissed all allegations as the UDF’s “attempt to mask its humiliating weakness”.
He alleged the UDF lacked candidates in several wards and had faced police cases for forged nominations. He claimed that LDF workers were themselves attacked in places such as Taliparamba and Pariyaram and said “Saturday’s result would deliver another setback to the UDF.”